"# GEE_Project" 
Abstract
The European Space Agency’s Sentinel Missions offer unprecedented quantities of satellite imagery for monitoring land and oceans. For 2017 and 2018 new Sentinel 1 Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) ground range detected (GRD) images are available every one to three days for terrestrial Great Britain. As active sensors using radar wavelengths, SAR sensors can capture data day or night and penetrate cloud, offering immense potential for monitoring change. This project used the catalogue of analysis-ready Sentinel 1 GRD imagery available in Google Earth Engine (GEE) to test the classification accuracies of known recent clearfell sites in woodlands in GB. Detecting clearfelling sooner and more accurately has the potential to improve the quality of woodland area change reporting, to create new spatial datasets to help forest managers and potentially to detect illegal felling. The GEE APIs for Python and Javascript were used to analyse seasonal variation in Sentinel 1 backscatter for woodland tree canopy and clearfell areas using monthly composite Sentinel 1 images. Unsupervised classifiers (Otsu Thresholding and K-Means) and supervised classifiers (including SVM and Random Forest) were tested. The best predictions were seen using a Random Forest classifier, from which prediction accuracies of over 90% were possible in May, June and July 2018. Prediction accuracies dropped by over 20% in January and December 2018 in large coniferous plantations. Future work could focus on improving winter prediction accuracy rates by extracting additional temporal and spatial pixel properties from the Sentinel 1 image stack and testing other machine learning techniques.
